>> Steve Kinney: Except.
>> Steve Kinney: That gets you to the very
first page render, then our friend
comes along and changes stuff, right.
That'll get you to a static page,
if you're a content site that will
get you most of the way there, right.
Again, see the lazy approach
to web performance,
new title for the course.
So likely that is not the only time
that you are going to end up rendering
the page, right.
And most user interfaced based
applications you're moving
stuff around a lot, right.
This is the large majority
of what is happening there.
And if you are doing weird
stuff with objects and
managing state the end result is
you wanna display a UI, right.
You want to change the UI based on all of
this other JavaScript calculation that
you're doing.
So an incomplete list of things that
JavaScript can do that impact rendering
performance is they can change
the class of an object.
What does that mean,
does the class two x size, right, it,
does it change the dimensions of it,
does it change the color?
We don't know what that does so
it means we need to do some part of
the rendering process all over again.
Did we change the inline styles of
the objects is effectively the same as
the changing the class, except darker.
And adding or
removing elements to the page,
you might need to re-lay out the page,
right.
These are all things that can happen.
And for all the steps we saw before,
okay, the DOM,
the CSS object model,
the render tree, right.
We effectively mostly keep around the DOM
and sometimes the CSS object model.
If you change style sheets
that's gotta be recalculated.
But everything else that render
tree needs to be remade.
When the render tree needs to be remade
we probably need to re-layout the page.
When layout changes we probably
need to repaint the page, right.
So anytime we have these big effects we
end up having to redo a lot of this work.
So it's not a one-time thing,
it's a many times thing.
And there are some things you
can do that really get you that.
Remember that red bar along the top
when we were in the introduction and
we could say you could peg the CPU?
You can do a lot of stuff in this process
because they're all sharing the main
thread, right.
Your painting, your layout,
your JavaScript are all competing for
the same computer resources, right.
So kinda keeping those all
together is important.
So this is the render pipeline.
Javascript can change the styles
of a page by either adding or
removing classes, which could change
the geometry and the layout of the page.
That could change the colors.
Like, okay, when they hover I wanna change
this button from white to blue, right.
That's gonna need you to repaint and
then you need to send all that new data
over to the GPU to get done, right, cool.
So each one of those steps triggers
everything change the style,
change the computed styles all
that recalculation has to happen.
Anything could change that may or
may not have changed the geometry
those things are now different,
send it to GPU, cool.
You don't always need to do all
of those every time, right.
In the event that you're just
changing the background color or
the opacity of an object, right.
Do you need to re-lay out the page?
Probably not, right.
So there are some times, especially with
stuff like opacity and CSS transforms,
where you can actually skip
even the paint process.
You can skip different parts of this.
If the window resizes,
none of the styles have changed so
you can theoretically keep
the style calculations, right.
It's just maybe the flexbox has different
rules you might need to re-layout or
re-paint.
So you don't always need
to do all of them, right.
Sometimes you can skip a few of them,
right.
And that's what this whole
section is about, right.
Because not doing stuff,
skipping entire sections will always
be faster than doing them, right.
And the same corollary applies, right,
of not doing stuff is faster than doing
stuff, doing stuff more than you need
to can also be problematic, right.
So we want to skip
whatever we can skip and
we definitely don't wanna do anything
more than we need to, right.
Again, see the lazy approach to web
performance, new title for the course.